	  Instructions for installing Security-Enhanced BSD

SEBSD ships as a kernel loadable module that loads into a FreeBSD 5.x
kernel supporting the TrustedBSD MAC framework.  The SEBSD
installation CD contains a FreeBSD 5.0 distribution and a MAC kernel.
The installation process completely installs the FreeBSD operating
system, including full source code.  TrustedBSD MAC-aware programs are
installed by default, as well as an unmodified FreeBSD 5.0
kernel. However, the installation process will also install the a MAC
kernel and security modules.  For more detailed instructions for
installing FreeBSD, please refer to the FreeBSD Handbook, available on
the FreeBSD project web site (http://www.freebsd.org/).

Quick Installation
------------------
1.  Install FreeBSD 5.0-SEBSD
    a. Use standard install
    b. Disk partition, select 'A', use entire disk (erases entire disk)
    c. Disk label:  select 'A', use default disk label
    d. Packages: select 'Developer' configuration
    e. Media: CDROM
    f. Commit
2.  Boot system and verify basic functionality
3.  Add 'sebsd_load="YES"' to /boot/loader.conf
4.  Install policy: 
	cd /etc/security/sebsd/policy && make install
5.  Boot MAC kernel in single-user mode and enable multilabel support
	tunefs -l enable {/,/usr,/var,/tmp}
6.  Boot MAC kernel and perform an initial file system label
	cd /etc/security/sebsd/policy && make relabel
7.  Boot MAC kernel


Detailed Installation Instructions
----------------------------------

These instructions assume some familiarity with the FreeBSD operating
system installation, boot loader, kernel configuration, etc.  The
sysinstall installation application used by SEBSD is nearly identical
to the one used by the FreeBSD project.  A custom release was built to
install the SEBSD policy source files and to build a kernel with
TrustedBSD MAC Framework support.  For more detailed information on
the FreeBSD operating system or the installation process, refer to the
FreeBSD handbook available at the project website: www.freebsd.org.

1.  Boot the FreeBSD 5.0-SEBSD installation CD; this CD will install
    the complete operating system, including kernels, user space
    applications, and complete source code.  A series of menus will
    prompt the user how to proceed.

    a.  At the main menu, select an installation method, typically,
        the standard installation is adequate.

    b.  Assuming the standard installation option was chosen, the next
        menu will display the disk partition manager.  As long as the
        installation machine will be dedicated to SEBSD, allow the
        partition manager to use the entire disk by selecting 'A'.
        Select 'Q' to exit the partition manager.  The installation
        program may print a warning that this creates a dedicated
        machine.  That's fine, it's exactly what is desired.  It will
        proceed to ask which boot manager to install; select 'BootMgr'
        to install the normal FreeBSD boot manager on this hard disk.

    c.  The next menu will label the disk to create swap space and
        individual file systems.  Selecting 'A' will use the default
        values.  Select 'Q' to proceed to the next menu.

    d.  At this point, choose the distributions to install.  The
        'Developer' option is recommended.  X Window support is not
        included on this installation CD, and may be installed later.
        Likewise, the optional ports collection is not include on the
        SEBSD installation CD, do not include it when prompted.  The
        ports collection may be added to the system later.

    e.  Select CD/DVD from the 'Choose Installation Media' menu.

    f.  Confirm installation, with the configuration recommended in
        these instructions, all existing data on the hard disk will be
        destroyed.  The installation program may warn that the
        packages/INDEX file was not available.  This message may be
	ignored.

2.  Reboot the system when prompted.  The boot kernel will be the
    generic FreeBSD kernel, this step just verifies that everything
    was installed correctly and that the system boots.

3.  To enable the sebsd module on future boots, add the following line
    to /boot/loader.conf:
		sebsd_load="YES"

4.  Install the SEBSD policy.  The policy is located in the
    /etc/security/sebsd/policy directory.  Since SEBSD uses the same
    policy language and compiler as SELinux, the SELinux report
    titled, "Configuring the SELinux Policy", (available at the
    SELinux project web site: http://www.nsa.gov/selinux/) can provide
    additional information.  To compile and install the sample policy:
	cd /etc/security/sebsd/policy && make install

5.  Make the MAC kernel the system default.  The simplest way to
    change the default kernel is by adding the following line to
    /boot/loader.conf: 
	kernel="MAC"

6.  At this point, the policy has been installed, but the file systems
    have not yet been labeled.  To do this, the extended attribute
    support must be turned on for each file system. This operation only
    needs to be done once, but must be done while the system in in
    single user mode.  Reboot the machine, but interrupt the boot
    process at the FreeBSD boot manager (when prompted).  To boot the
    MAC kernel in single user mode, enter the following instruction:
	boot -s

    While in single user mode, enable file system multilabel support:
	tunefs -l enable /
	tunefs -l enable /usr
	tunefs -l enable /var
	tunefs -l enable /tmp
	...

    Do not exit from the shell and allow the kernel to finish booting,
    completely reboot the machine instead (use the reboot command).

7.  Label the file system.  Boot the machine with the MAC kernel
    (having made it the default, or by selecting it at the boot
    manager) and perform an initial file system labeling.  Login as
    root and run the following command: 
	cd /etc/security/sebsd/policy && make relabel

8.  Reboot the machine with the MAC kernel one final time, so that
    applications can use the file labels and will be started in the
    correct domains.

At this point, the machine should be running SEBSD with the default
policy. The default policy is only an example and must be customized.
Furthermore, the sample policy is not complete, so the system will
print some access control warnings.  By default, the system is
configured in the development mode; in this mode, access control
failures are logged but not enforced.  To toggle between enforcing
mode and development mode, use the security.mac.sebsd.enforcing
sysctl.
